%Experimental body
%Created MB 04-12

\section{Experimental}\label{experimental}

Our experiment constists of three main components: direct observation
of the visual properties of liquid helium, measurement of second sound
velocity as a function of temperature, and measurement of specific
heat as a function of temperature. Several features are common to all
three experiments performed. Two separate Precision Cryogenic Systems
model PVS-337 LHe Vapo-Shield Dewars are used for different stages fo
the experiment. Aluminized Mylar superinsulation provides isolation to
the external environment. The preparatory procedure for all
experiments is to precool the dewar to $77$ K using liquid nitrogen
and then to fill the dewar with liquid helium. Temperature control of
the liquid helium is achieved by pumping on the liquid with a
mechanical vacuum pump: changing the vapor pressure also changes the
temperature in a predictable manner, subject to a calibration found in
\ref{temperaturecalibration}. The temperature of helium I is uniform
throughout the bath if the system is being pumped down (that is, for
decreasing temperature); the temperature of helium II is uniform
constantly, as described in Section~\ref{thermalconductivity}.

\subsection{Visual Observation Experiments}

The first experiment consists of visual observations of superfluid
helium phenomena. One helium dewar has a glass observation window near
the bottom; while this increases coupling to the environment and
thereby raises the lowest achievable temperature, it is still possible
to pump the helium down to superfluid temperatures and enables direct
observation of the liquid.

\subsubsection{Transition between He I and He II}

The most obvious phenomenon is the transition between helium I and helium II. As the temperature is lowered through the $\lambda$-point, it is possible to observe through the window the marked change in the appearance of the liquid, which is a result of helium II's inability to support temperature gradients as described in section \ref{thermalconductivity}.

\subsubsection{Superfluid fountain}\label{superfluidfountain}

The next experiment allows for a particularly impressive display of this inability to support temperature gradients. A specially crafted glass container has a very narrow capillary tube on top, and a wide semi-porous glass bottom. The semi-porous glass (made of very finely ground and compacted glass) creates winding openings of diameter on the order of $100$ $\mu$m which allow only superfluid, not normal fluid, to pass. A $100$ $\Omega$ resistor placed inside the container acts as a heater. When a voltage is applied to the resistor, the heated helium draws cooler superfluid to it in an effort to remove the temperature gradient; this sudden rush of superfluid forces some fluid out through the capillary tube on top, creating a small helium fountain.

\subsection{Second Sound Experiment}

In the second part of the experiment, we measure the propagation speed of second sound as a function of temperature.

Second sound is the wave propagation of heat in a superfluid, so a source of heat is necessary. A grid of Nichrome wire, with a resistance of about $10$ $\Omega$, is used as a resistive heater. A HP3018A function generator creates an $80$ $\mu$s low voltage ($5$ V) pulse, which is amplified to $40$ V with a Kepco BOP 50-2M Power Amplifier and sent to the heater. 

\subsubsection{Thermometry}
To measure second sound propagation speed, a thermometer is necessary
to detect the signal. A carbon resistor ($65$ $\Omega$ at room
temperature) is supplied with a constant $100$ $\mu$A current, and the
voltage across it is read by a voltmeter. A change in temperature of
the resistor at very low temperatures corresponds to a change in
resistance, and therefore a change in voltage. This resistor (referred
to as a bolometer) is placed at the end of a sliding rod, whose
distance from the Nichrome wire is able to be adjusted from $3$ cm to
$12$ cm.

A heat pulse read on the bolometer is expected to be visible as a dip
on an oscilloscope. As temperature increases when the heat pulse
passes the bolometer, the resistance decreases, and therefore the
voltage decreases. The signal from the bolometer is very noisy and
difficult to read, as the wires leading to it are unshielded so as to
lower thermal contact into the liquid helium. A $60$ Hz bandpass
filter reduces powerline pickup, the worst source of noise; to remove
other sources of noise and to amplify the signal, a EG\&G PARC 113
Pre-Amp is set to a gain of $10^4$ with a $3\times 10^3$ Hz high-pass
filter and $0.1$ Hz low-pass filter.

To perform measurements at a constant temperature, it is important to maintain the vapor pressure at a constant level. A series of valves attached to the vacuum pump allows for very fine control of the pumping rate, which can be set at a level to temporarily balance the heat flow from the outside environment. Changes in the volume of the liquid offset this delicate equilibrium, so it is necessary to constantly monitor the pressure and update the pumping rate to compensate.

To perform measurements of the velocity of second sound, first a constant temperature is selected. A series of heat pulses is sent using the function generator, and an oscilloscope averages over the response from the bolometer to further reduce noise. The time between the pulse from the generator and the first dip on the bolometer is recorded; this time corresponds to how long it took the pulse to travel from the nichrome wire to the bolometer. The distance between the wire and the bolometer is then altered and recorded, and the measurement repeated. Once 7 measurements are taken at one temperature, the temperature is changed and the process is repeated.

\subsection{Heat Capacity Experiment}\label{heatcapacityexperiment}

The purpose of the next experiment is to determine the specific heat of liquid helium as a function of temperature; to measure this, a pulse of known heat is sent into a high purity sample of liquid helium in a small cell and the temperature response is measured at different starting temperatures.

\subsubsection{Thermometer Calibration}\label{thermometercalibration}

The first step of monitoring the temperature response is to create a thermometer; as in the second sound experiment, a resistor attached to the cell is used to monitor changes in temperature. Unlike in the second sound experiment, the resistor used is composed of germanium, which has very predictable behavior as a function of temperature (resistance goes up with decreasing temperature) and excellent cycling properties (that is, one measurement of a resistance will always correspond to the same temperature, as there is little drift between experimental runs). A constant current of 1.00 $\mu$A is applied to the cold resistor by tuning the voltage of the power supply and reading the voltage drop across a 9.963 k$\Omega$ resistor at room temperature which is in series with the thermometer. The voltage across the cold resistor is then amplified by an op-amp circuit with a gain of 170 so as to increase the signal and decrease output impedance \footnote{Note that the maximum current is limited by the maximum output voltage of the op-amp, 4.4 Volts. While it would be ideal to use a higher current in order to increase resolution of the voltage measurement, since the error of the voltage measurement is $\delta V \propto \frac{V}{I} \delta I$ and therefore goes down with increased current, the op-amp enforces a maximum of 1 $\mu$A to avoid saturation.}. A large volume of exchange gas is introduced into the the inner vacuum can in order to couple the temperature of the cell (and thereby the cold resistor) with the temperature of the helium bath. Such a large amount is necessary because there of the activated charcoal cryopumps placed in the vacuum can: these must be saturated to provide proper coupling. As the temperature decreases the efficiency of the cryopump increases, so it is important to monitor the pressure of this exchange gas and ensure that it is always present, as the efficiency of the cryopump increases at low temperatures. The voltage across the germanium resistor and the vapor pressure of the helium bath are recorded as the helium is pumped down to equilibrium. Pumping is paused as each voltage measurement is taken, allowing the systems to thermally equilibrate. After adjusting values of the recorded pressure for known offsets in the gauges, the voltage is fit against temperature with the function

\begin{equation}
\label{eq:fiteqn}
\ln{V} = \sum_{n=0}^{8} a_{n} (\ln{T})^{n}
\end{equation}

recommended by White for fitting the resistance of germanium as a function of temperature  \cite{white}. Note that we fit voltage, which is only different from resistance by a factor of $I$.

\subsubsection{Heat Pulses}

With the germanium resistor successfully calibrated, the next step is devise a method for sending pulses of heat into the system. A second resistor is placed onto the copper cell to function as a heating element. A four probe measurement of the resistance is taken; for a voltage pulse of a set length, we now have $Q = P t = V^{2} t / R$. Note that the voltage here is read off from the 4-probe measurement as well, not from the pulser itself: the resistance of the wire down to the resistor does dissipate some voltage. A small electronics system sends out pulses of a chosen voltage and duration at the press of a button, so the rate and exact amount of heat per pulse can be chosen exactly.


\subsubsection{Heat Capacity of Copper Cell}

Before the specific heat of helium can be determined, it is necessary to measure the heat capacity of the empty copper cell. To begin, we pump down the system to the lowest temperature possible. At this point the inner vacuum is still empty, so the cell is still at room temperature. A moderate amount of helium buffer gas is introduced into the vacuum can, which the cryopump quickly absorbs. A heater attached to the cryopump is then activated (and the temperature monitored on a diode thermometer next to it) so as to desorb the cryopump and allow the copper cell to equilibrate with the helium bath at the very low temperature. The heater is then turned off and the buffer gas absorbed by the cryopump, so the copper cell is isolated from the bath. Because the capillary leading out is very small, coupling to the outside environment is minimal as well. Voltage across the germanium resistor is recorded by a computer, and pulses of heat are sent into the cell (making sure that there is enough time between pulses for the heat to distribute evenly through the cell). With a given heat pulse and a measured temperature response per pulse, the heat capacity of the copper cell (as a function of temperature) can easily be calculated and fit to a curve, as described in \ref{specificheatofmetals}.

\subsubsection{Specific Heat of Helium}
With the heat capacity of the copper cell calculated, it is finally possible to measure the specific heat of helium. First, the number of moles in the high purity sample must be calculated. The helium is stored in a bottle of known volume at room temperature; once the pressure is measured, the ideal gas law $P V = n R T$ allows for the calculation of the number of moles. Next, the system is cooled to the lowest temperature again and the cell is brought into thermal contact with the bath with the procedure described above. The helium from the bottle is then allowed into the capillary connecting it to the cell; because liquid helium is 760 times as dense as gaseous helium at a given pressure \cite{shi}, almost all of the helium condenses into the cell, and the only gas that remains is from vapor pressure of the liquid at this low temperature. The cryopump heater is then turned off so as to isolate the system once more, and known heat pulses are sent into the cell through the heater. \footnote{We make the approximation that all the helium becomes liquid, and that this is true for all the relevant temperatures. Of course there is an element of inaccuracy to this, as the vapor pressure does change and the amount of gaseous helium therefore also changes, but this is a small effect compared to the factor of 700 discussed previously.} The voltage is once again read and recorded by a computer. It is particularly important at this step to ensure that enough time has been provided for the system to equilibrate after each pulse; while helium II does not support temperature gradients and therefore equilibrates quickly-- the copper is the relevant time constant here-- helium I takes much longer to settle. Given that there is an element of heating through the capillary, the top end of which is at room temperature, it is also important to not wait too long, so that heating does not dominate.  With these measurements made, the heat capacity of the entire system is calculated. The heat capacity of the copper is then subtracted off, and the result divided by the number of moles calculated earlier, so as to obtain the specific heat of the helium alone.